# CiboTracker: Design
Below are the details concerning each of the different components that make up the CiboTracker web application.

#### Python Files
+ `application.py` operates as the Flask application file, and contains all the routes for handling requests to the server. 
+ `helpers.py` contains certain helper functions that are used throughout the `application.py` file. Of note are the `lookup` function, which queries the USDA FoodData Central API, and the `str_to_dict`, which plays an important role in parsing strings passed to the server to dictionaries.
+ `database_config.py` defines the classes `User`, `Food`, and `Favorite` that the `db` instance of `SQLAlchemy` uses to represent the three tables by the same names in the `cibo.db` file. The `app` instance of the `Flask` application class is also defined in this file in order to configure the `db` instance of `SQLAlchemy`.

#### The `templates` Directory: HTML Files
+ `layout.html` defines the template that the other seven `.html` files in this directory extend.

#### The `static` Directory
+ `styles.css` defines the custom styles used in this web application. This file builds off of the styles defined in the Bootstrap 5 CSS files linked in the header of the `templates/layout.html` file. 
+ `favicon.ico` is the favicon for this project. I do not own this image; the original version can be found [here](https://favicon.io/emoji-favicons/kiwi-fruit).
+ `x-circle-fill.svg` is a vector image used throughout the `.html` files of this project. It is a member of the [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/) collection; the original image can be found [here](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/x-circle-fill/).

#### SQL Files
+ `cibo.db` is the SQL database file that contains all the information that CiboTracker requires to run correctly.

#### Other Files
+ `requirements.txt` contains the Python modules and versions thereof required for this application. It was generated by executing `pip freeze > requirements.txt` in the Python virtual environment used to build this application.
+ `run` is an executable file that sets the appropriate environment variables and runs CiboTracker as a flask application on a local server. Executing the command `./run` after all the necessary Python modules have been installed will allow a user to run CiboTracker on their computer. 